On this channel, I mostly talk about physical miners or digital nodes. And from time to time, there is a node that comes by or a physical miner that is stupidly profitable, but we don't realize it yet because the earnings aren't out yet. If you had gotten into Deletium when I first did and made a video about it, you'd be very, very happy with it.

Still earning multiple dollars daily, even after getting at least twice your money back. Pretty much the exact same for when I talked about Sonoris, but today, we're not going to talk about those two. We're not going to talk about Helium miners.

We're going to talk about none other than the OXVM validator nodes. I got mine a couple of days ago. As you can see, my total XVM tokens earned so far are 3,396.

And daily, I'm earning around 462 of those tokens. Hey, what's up, peeps? It's your boy, Marcel, aka SmallCalm. I hope you're doing well.

I'm wearing none other than the Moon Swatch mission to Jupiter with that sweet, sweet Omega logo on the dial. I like that very much. I'm sorry, the ring light's still not fixed since yesterday, so we're going to deal with the actual sunlight for today's lighting.

Anyways, I don't think that's why you clicked on this video. You don't want to know about sun rays and stuff like that or ring lights. You probably want to know how to make some nice passive income through different projects in crypto.

So, let's jump into it. The first thing you get greeted by when you're on OXVM's website is this slider that switches between high-performance parallel EVM on Bitcoin, the fastest modular execution layer for Bitcoin, the trustless verification layer for Bitcoin Layer 2. Scrolling down some more, you can see that OXVM is trying to build the fastest modular execution layer for Bitcoin. Now, this is not something that's easy to do because, a lot of people tried and a lot of people failed, but what they're saying is that as an EVM-compatible execution layer for Bitcoin, it empowers the network with Turing-complete smart contract functionality.

Now, smart contracts on Bitcoin aren't really a thing because they're not easy to build on Bitcoin, whereas if you look at ETH or Solana, there are a bunch of smart contracts because ETH was kind of built with that in mind. Bitcoin's main thing was basically being a peer-to-peer decentralized currency, a way of sending money to someone across the world without using a middleman. So, what they're trying to do here is actually unlocking a new frontier of programmable financial apps and decentralized computation on a blockchain that wasn't necessarily made for it, but if they're actually able to do this, this could actually be huge.

The reason being is that it'll run on top of the Bitcoin network, which nowadays is one of the most secure, the most 51% attack resistant because, well, it's the top market cap in crypto. So, in order to run what's called a 51% attack, you need 51% of the supply and good luck with that. And you can see that right here on the OXVM stack, a new way to launch your own layer 2 chain inheriting Bitcoin's robust security.

If we click on learn more right here, it brings us to this page that says bring your blockchain to Bitcoin ecosystem with modular scaling. Get your idea to market fast by launching your own layer 2 chain while inheriting the robust security of the Bitcoin network. In simple terms, they want to be the ones to bring speed up development.

I can never say that word, speed up development. Can't say it. Interoperability, which is a more complicated word, but for some reason, no issues pronouncing that one.

And this one's a big one. Interoperability, if you're not aware, in crypto is like the actual goal. To have every single chain be able to work together seamlessly.

That's what the Polygon ecosystem is trying to really do right now. They just switched from the token MATIC to PAL and they're trying to fix that issue of interoperability, which would be verifying data directly on the Bitcoin network through OXVM while seamlessly integrating and running unmodified EVM gaps. Obviously, they'd offer some customization and it would be GameFi friendly.

Unique profile architecture provides native support for building GameFi applications. Anyways, I know what you're here for. I know that you want to make some passive income by buying some nodes.

So right here, you can see that they have validation node sale. OXVM brings gaming, DeFi, AI, any smart contract enabled solution directly to Bitcoin layer 1. As OXVM validator node owner, you're rewarded for upholding the security and integrity of the OXVM network. Now, unlike some of the other nodes, you won't actually have to run this one on a machine, meaning you don't have to keep a computer on 24 seven.

It's more like a digital share of the project of the company. So you get yourself a node and you click on one button and three hours later, you start earning those tokens. Guys, guys, guys, little cut in the video.

80% of you guys aren't subscribed to the channel. So even if you think you are, please just scroll down a little bit. Should be like right here and check.

And if you're not subscribed and you subscribe, you can unsubscribe anytime if you don't like the content or whatever. Plus, it's free. Anyways, back to it.

They're currently going for 700 USDT or $700. Once they reach 10,000 nodes sold, the price will go up by $1 every 10 sold. So we're currently in the cheapest price to get one of these.

There's going to be a total of 50,000 nodes and the daily reward pool of XVM, which is their token, XVM token is 700,000 tokens split amongst all the nodes. There's currently only 1,573 nodes online, which compared to a total of 50,000 is nothing, meaning it's still really early. And by splitting 700,000 XVM between 1,573, if I go to my dashboard, you can see that if you have one node, you'll be earning around 462 tokens a day.

You can see that I already have one node running right here, but I want to bring your attention to a couple of things before showing you how to get one for yourself. Firstly, we know it's 700,000 tokens split between all nodes daily, but what about the actual tokenomics? Well, that 700,000 tokens daily is going to be none other than 26% of the total token supply. That's specifically for node rewards.

Furthermore, after six months, there'll be the first halving where daily distribution drops to 350,000 daily tokens. Your node won't get rewarded infinitely. After 48 months, it stops, meaning your node will get rewarded for a full four years and then poof.

I think that's actually a pretty smart idea. Furthermore, the distribution example is as follows. At 500 nodes sold, people got 1,400 tokens daily.

At 5,000 nodes sold, they'll get only 140. And at 10,000 nodes sold, you'll get 70 XVM daily. But as we said, I'm currently getting 462, so way more than later on when a lot of people will have hopped into this project.

So I'm actually stacking a lot of tokens. When it comes to withdrawals, it'll be subject to a 30-day lockup to withdraw 100% conversion, meaning it's some form of like vesting that you can see right here, 25% vested. So token lockup period less than 10 days.

If I don't wait at least 10 days, I'll only get 25% of those 3,400 tokens. If I wait between 10 and 30 days, I'll get half of it or 50%. And if I wait a full 30 days, I'll get the full amount.

And I believe this vesting starts on the date of TGE, which should happen late September, beginning of October. We're talking in hardly a month, meaning this is actually a really fast play because you can buy a node today and in a month, TGE happens. And then one month later, you have fully invested your tokens and you can sell them at full price.

On top of that, the Gate.io Web3 wallet posted Gate Web3 Scribbles by OXVM airdrop is live. Scribbles is like their telegram click to earn game. I'll let you look into that if you want.

I'll have a link down below to actually join that game if you'd like to. But they're doing an airdrop of OXVM $100,000 of points. Now, I'm not exactly sure if it's $100,000, if it's 100,000 points, that makes it a little unclear, but it's Gate.io. It's the Gate Web3 wallet tweeting about OXVM, meaning is it going to be listed on Gate? That's possible.

That would be nice. They've got a public team with their CEO being pretty active on Twitter. But most importantly, investors.

Who do you recognize? Huobi, an exchange. An exchange is invested in this. So I'm assuming it's also going to list on Huobi.

And Razer. Razer, I'm sorry, but wait, let me switch camera. If you don't know Razer, it's this logo.

Yes, my keyboard is disgusting. OK, don't judge. Razer is like a gaming focused company, but they do also have an investment firm, and they decided to invest in OXVM.

And I don't think that's saying nothing. That's pretty big to me, at least. So the benefits of getting the node is obviously like the tokens, getting daily tokens.

You do get 5 to 15% referrals on your sale. So if you get a node and you get your referral code and you say to a friend, hey, use my code, you'll get a little kickback and you get network participation rewards. So you're entitled to XBTC gas fees, project revenue share as XVM or L2 native tokens, increasing voting privileges, priority access and more.

The first link in the description will be the one that brings you to this page and it'll auto fill in my referral code. You don't have to use it, but I would appreciate if you did, because it helps the channel. I get a small kickback at it.

I get that referral bonus. Then you click on buy for 700 USDT. You see my codes pre-filled and it's PMPTC3.

Then you can actually choose the network you want to purchase the node on, meaning Ethereum, Arbitrum, BNB chain, Optimism and Polygon. So I like this very much because it gives you the option to either go with ETH if you have funds on ETH or BNB chain or Polygon, whichever one you want to pick. Then you can select the number of nodes you want to purchase.

I don't think it even limits you. Wait, does it stop you at like 100 or something? No, it doesn't. Okay, so you can buy as many of these as you want.

And if you want to receive them on a different address, you can click another address to receive and own these nodes. And in that field, you can only put an Ethereum address. So make sure to use a wallet on which you'll be able to connect to the website, meaning something such as Metamask, because you'll have to click a claim button.

And if you just put an exchange address right there, I'm not sure and I'm pretty sure actually that you won't be able to claim your tokens. Then you just click on purchase right here. For me, it says insufficient balance.

Obviously, I don't have 73,500 dollars. And it'll open your Metamask and you click on confirm. Make sure you have enough for the gas fees and that's it.

Once you get the node, what's going to happen is you go to your dashboard right here, you go to my nodes and it's going to be under non-running nodes. Right here, you can see only nodes successfully deployed and running will generate earnings. Deployment takes some time, so please be patient.

All you have to do is click on delegate right here. That button will have been lit up. And three hours later, three to four hours later, you'll see it appear right here in running nodes.

And then you'll start earning that sweet XVM rewards every single day. Now let's run some ROI, return on investment math kind of, but it's going to be subjective because I'm not exactly sure at what price a token is going to launch. I'm going to assume two cents because most of these node projects launch at two cents.

They have similar tokenomics. So let's just go with that. So two cents times 462 tokens daily.

That means I'm making $9.24. If the price is two cents, obviously this is subject to change. So the node is 700 USDT or $700 divided by $9.24. That gives me an estimate return on investment time. If the token launches at two cents of 75 days and 75.

So let's call it 76 days. Let's just divide that by 30, around two and a half months to get return on investment. That's not bad at all.

I am planning on getting a couple more of these, and I should have another video out once I do get a couple more of these. I did make a tweet about these nodes a couple of days ago, and some of you guys were actually fast enough. And just off that tweet, got a couple.

You can see that four people actually got some nodes with that tweet. And with the TGE happening late September, beginning of October, with the listing right after that, this is in less than a month. So I'm actually really excited for it.

Guys, if you have any questions, you know the drill. Drop them down below in the comments. All the links are there in the description.

As usual, I would recommend that you go follow them on their socials. Join your Discord. That's where you'll get the most up-to-date information.

And as you can see, they're followed by some pretty big names, including Sonorous, the nodes that I mentioned in the intro. But on that note, it was your boy Marcel, aka SmallCalm. I hope you guys have a good one, and I'll catch y'all another one.

Peace. Honestly, honestly, is that not class? I mean, I feel like $300 for a plastic watch kind of hurts, but it does say Omega, you know? Peace.